.\" Manpage for camunda-tool
.\" Contact lud.sund@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.

.TH camunda-tool 1 "19 July 2019" "1.0" "camunda-tool manual"

.SH NAME

camunda-tool \- useful wrapper around the Camunda REST API

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B camunda-tool COMMANDS OPTIONS

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B camunda-tool
is a wrapper around the Camunda REST API for interacting with
Camunda BPM from the command line. Designed to give easy and fast access to the
core functionality you need to develop and monitor camunda processes.

.SH COMMANDS

Commands are tokens that does not start with a dash.
.B camunda-tool
expects all commands before any options are given

Valid commands are:

.IP list
.RI [ DEFINITION_KEY ]
list all currently running process instances of the given definition. If
.I DEFINITION_KEY
is omitted, list all running process instances.

.IP hlist
.RI [ DEFINITION_KEY ]
list all process instances of the given definition. If
.I DEFINITION_KEY
is omitted, list all process instances.

.IP vars
.I PROCESS_ID
list the variables of the given process ID.

.IP start
.I DEFINITION_KEY VARIABLES...
starts an instance of the latest process definition with the given definition
key given start variables. The start variables are given as a space separated
list "k0 v0 k1 v1 k2 v2..." of key-value pairs. All variables gets type string.

.IP "monitor PROCESS_ID"
TODO

.IP "input-vars DEFINITION_KEY"
TODO

.SH OPTIONS

Options begin with one or two dashes.

Valid options are:

.IP "\-a \fIAPI\fR, --api \fIAPI\fR"
Specify the REST API endpoint to use. If omitted,
http://localhost:8080/engine-rest is used as default value.

.IP "-l, --list-view"
Output a human readable list instead of raw JSON

.IP "-p, --pretty"
Pretty print the output

.IP "-n, --no-filter"
Do not filter the raw JSON response from Camunda.

.SH EXAMPLES

.IP "List all active process instances"

\fB$\fR camunda-tool list

.IP "Start an instance of the latest definition of 'invoice' with variables foo=bar and baz=qux"

\fB$\fR camunda-tool start invoice foo bar baz qux

.IP "Since the program always return JSON, it is easily adaptable to \fBjq\fR"

\fB$\fR camunda-tool list | jq '.[].id'

\fB$\fR camunda-tool list | jq 'map(select(.processDefinitionName == "Invoice Receipt"))'

.SH BUGS

No known bugs.

.SH SEE ALSO

jq(1)

.SH AUTHOR

Ludvig Sundström (lud.sund@gmail.com)
